AWS OTel Collector installation instructions (#741)
akka/akka-platform-guide: docs-source/docs/modules/deployment/pages/aws-install-quickstart.adoc

3. Install the Akka Cloud Platform Helm chart
4. Setup an Amazon Managed Streaming for Apache Kafka (MSK) cluster
5. Setup an Amazon Aurora Relational Database Service (RDS) cluster

> 6. Install AWS OTel Collector to see application traces in X-Ray Console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Install the AWS OTel Collector to see application traces in the X-Ray Console
```

----
====

[#install-aws-otel-collector]
=== Install AWS OTel Collector to see application traces in X-Ray Console

> AWS OTel Collector collects traces from applications instrumented with Lightbend Telemetry 2.16.1+ and sends them to X-Ray.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AWS OTel Collector collects traces from applications instrumented with Lightbend Telemetry 2.16.1+ and sends them to X-Ray.
```

Opt-in to install AWS OTel Collector into your EKS cluster:

[source,shell script]
----
pulumi config set install-aws-otel-collector true
----

Choose an AWS region if it differs from `aws:region`:

[source,shell script]
----
pulumi config set aws-xray-region eu-central-1
----

Set AWS X-Ray credentials:

[source,shell script]
----
pulumi config set aws-xray-access-key-id <your access key id>
pulumi config set aws-xray-secret-access-key <your secret access key>
----

After that run `pulumi up` to install AWS OTel Collector. If your cluster already exists it will only install AWS OTel Collector if it's not there yet or if its configuration has changed.

> Once AWS OTel Collector deployed you can get `awsOTelCollectorServiceEndpoint` that you will need to configure your application to report traces to AWS OTel Collector Zipkin endpoint in the Lightbend Telemetry config:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the AWS OTel Collector is deployed you can get `awsOTelCollectorServiceEndpoint`. You will need that endpoint to configure your application to report traces. The traces are reported to the AWS OTel Collector Zipkin endpoint within the Lightbend Telemetry config:
```

> Once the AWS OTel Collector is deployed you can get `awsOTelCollectorServiceEndpoint`. You will need that endpoint to configure your application to report traces. The traces are reported to the AWS OTel Collector Zipkin endpoint within the Lightbend Telemetry config:

Reviewer 2: Maybe have a code snipped with the configuration that needs to be done.

Author: There is a link to the `telemetry:aws-xray-support.adoc` instructions that include code snippets right after this paragraph.

Author: This instruction is about AWS OTel Colletor setup and `telemetry:aws-xray-support.adoc` explains how to setup Telemetry to produce traces and report to the collector.

[source,shell script]
----
$ pulumi stack output awsOTelCollectorServiceEndpoint
aws-otel-collector-svc.aws-otel-collector.svc.cluster.local
----

> In order to see the traces in X-Ray Console, you will need to set Lightbend Telemetry up for your application and configure it to produce traces. Please follow xref:telemetry:aws-xray-support.adoc[AWS X-Ray tracing support] for the details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to see the traces in X-Ray Console, you will need to setup Lightbend Telemetry for your application and configure it to produce traces. Please follow xref:telemetry:aws-xray-support.adoc[AWS X-Ray tracing support] for the details.
```
